# Stored Procedures

[[_TOC_]]

These can be divided into three categories:
- Housekeeping - day to day and periodic management of data
- UI SProcs
- Reporting SProcs 

## Housekeeping

### Year End SProcs

The SProcs: pr_Dntl_Clear_Prev, pr_Dntl_Archive_Applicants, and pr_Clear_Current_Applicants are all used once a year, when rolling over the DB to a new year of applicants to:
1. Delete the previous year's applicant data, source [here](https://universityofleeds.visualstudio.com/FAD/FAD%20Team/_git/FAD-SSDT?path=%2FFAD%2Fdbo%2FStored%20Procedures%2Fpr_Dntl_Clear_Prev.sql&version=GBmaster)
0. Archive the last lot of applicant data, source [here](https://universityofleeds.visualstudio.com/FAD/FAD%20Team/_git/FAD-SSDT?path=%2FFAD%2Fdbo%2FStored%20Procedures%2Fpr_Dntl_Archive_Applicants.sql&version=GBmaster)
0. Clear out the current applicants data in preparation for the next year's applicants, source [here](https://universityofleeds.visualstudio.com/FAD/FAD%20Team/_git/FAD-SSDT?path=%2FFAD%2Fdbo%2FStored%20Procedures%2Fpr_Clear_Current_Applicants.sql&version=GBmaster)

The other two housekeeping SProcs are used by the daily ETL from Banner by the SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) package, Dntl_Ad_INB_Extractions.dtsx (which is run daily by SQL Agent).

### Merge Banner data from holding tables
The SProc pr_Dntl_INB_Extraction_Merges is called as part of its penultimate step to merge the raw data it has acquired from Banner in the holding tables (**NOT** the ones used for importing XSLX data) into the standard user tables.

#### pr_Dntl_Remove_Exceptions

An SProc that removes a variety of unwanted data such as the previous year's non-UF applicants and their decisions and generally corrects any faulty data that would otherwise cause the merges to fail

#### pr_Dntl_INB_Extraction_Merges

This as its first step calls pr_Dntl_Remove_Exceptions. It then runs a number of steps:
1. update/add lookup data codes from Banner that may have changed or been added. Such as:
 ethnicity codes, programme codes, schools, and disability codes, etc..
0. Mark any applicants who've mysteriously disappeared as Inactive as they may reappear and 
we don't want to lose their local data (UCAS ONLY)
0. re-activate any applicants who've reappeared (UCAS ONLY)
0. regardless of inactivity or not merge the applicants details
0. update or insert new decisions (but only where applicant is known)
0. update the flag in applicant to show whether they have a deferred application.
Do non-deferrers first in case they have multiples with one for a subsequent year so that flag is raised whatever
0. Update A2L data

## User Interface SProcs

These are used by the Microsoft's Entity Framework (EF) to update the Applicant and Decision data rows in the DB. These are autogenerated by SQL scripts but partially edited to prevent the EF pointlessly updating the Banner data that is read only in the UI. They both return an updated rowversion field to the client so that further updates do not fail 

NB: rowversion columns are used as part of optimistic concurrency to prevent lost updates etc. They are always entitled "VS" in the data tables. The update SProcs always check that the VS that was passed in as an argument match the current row in the DB

There are no Insert or Delete SProcs,